Notice of the State Council Issuing the
New Generation of Artificial Intelligence Development Plan1
State Council Document [2017] No. 35
To all people’s governments of provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities
directly under the central government, all State Council ministries, and all directly
controlled institutions:
The "next generation of artificial intelligence development plan" is hereby issued to
you, please carefully implement.
State Council
July 8, 2017
A New Generation of Artificial Intelligence Development Plan  
The rapid development of artificial intelligence will profoundly change human
social life and the world. To seize the major strategic opportunities for the development
of artificial intelligence, build China's first-mover advantage in artificial intelligence
development, accelerate the construction of innovative countries and the world's science
and technology power, this plan is enacted in accordance with the requirements of the
CPC Central Committee and State Council.  
I. The Strategic Situation  
Artificial intelligence has developed into a new stage. After 60 years of evolution,
especially in the motivation of new theories and technologies (i.e mobile Internet, large
data, super-computing, sensor network, brain science) and strong demand for economic
and social development, artificial intelligence has accelerated with new features of deep
learning, cross-border integration, man-machine collaboration, open group intelligence
and autonomous control. Knowledge learning driven by large data, cross-media coprocessing, man-machine collaboration to enhance intelligence, group integration
intelligence and autonomous intelligence systems have become the focus of the
development of artificial intelligence. Brain science research results inspired by the brain
intelligence are ready, chip hardware platform development trend is more obvious and
artificial intelligence has developed into a new stage. At present, the whole promotion of
a new generation of artificial intelligence related disciplines, theoretical modeling,
technological innovation, hardware and software upgrades is triggering chain
breakthroughs and propelling the development of the economic and social fields from
digitalization and networkization to automation.  
  	   	 	   	   	 	     	  	   	   	   	  	 		 	 		     	  	
1  Translated	  by Flora	 Sapio FLIA	 Sholar), eming	 Ce FI	 Rsach	 sitnt),	 ad drian Lo	  
(FLIA  Research	  Intern). 
  

1  

  
  

  

  
  

Artificial intelligence has become the new focus of international competition.
Artificial intelligence is thought to be the strategic technology leading the future, the
world's major developed countries regard the development of artificial intelligence as the
major strategy to increase national competitiveness and enhance national security,
therefore they intensify the introduction of plans and policies and the deployment of the
core technology, top talent, standards etc. trying to grasp the initiative in the new round
of international science and technology competition. At present, China's national security
and international competition situation are more complex, so we must look at the world,
layout the artificial intelligence development on the national strategic level, grasp firmly
the strategic initiative of international competition during the new stage of artificial
intelligence development, create new competitive advantage, open up new spaces of
development, and effectively protect national security.  
Artificial intelligence has become a new engine of economic development. Artificial
intelligence as the core driving force of a new round of industrial transformation, will
further release the huge capacity accumulated by previous scientific and technological
revolution and industrial transformation, create a new powerful engine, reconstruct the
economic activities of production, distribution, exchange, consumption and others, form
the intelligent new demand from macro to the microscopic areas, promote the birth of
new technologies, new products, new industries, new formats and new models, trigger
significant changes in economic structure, profoundly change human production, lifestyle
and thinking mode, and achieve the remarkable jump of social productivity as a whole.
China's economy has developed into a new normal situation and deepening the supply
side of the structural reform task is very arduous, as a result, we must speed up the rapid
application of artificial intelligence, cultivate and expand the artificial intelligence
industry to inject new kinetic energy into China's economic development.  
Artificial intelligence brings new opportunities for social construction. China is in a
comprehensive stage of building a well-off society, population aging, resource
environment constraints and other challenges are still grim and the application of
artificial intelligence in education, medical care, pension, environmental protection,
urban operation, judicial services and other fields will greatly improve the precision level
of public service, comprehensively enhancing the quality of life of the people. Artificial
intelligence technology can accurately perceive, forecast, early warn the major trends of
infrastructure and social security operation, timely grasp the change of group awareness
and psychology, respond actively decision-making, significantly improve the ability and
level of social governance, and it is indispensable for the effective maintenance of social
stability.  
Uncertainties in the development of artificial intelligence bring new challenges.
Artificial intelligence is a disruptive technology that can affect government management,
economic security and social stability, and even global governance, which may lead to
problems of changes in employment structure, impact law and social ethics, violating
personal privacy and challenge international relations. While vigorously developing
artificial intelligence, we must attach great importance to the possible safety risk

  

2  

  
  

  

  
  

challenges, strengthen the forward-looking prevention and restraint guidance, minimize
risk and ensure the safe, reliable and controllable development of artificial intelligence.  
China has a good basis for the development of artificial intelligence. The State has
deployed special projects, such as intelligent manufacturing and other key research and
development projects, issued three years implementation program of the "Internet+",
made a series of measures in aspects of research and development of science and
technology, application and promotion and industrial development etc. After years of
continuous accumulation, China has made important progresses in the field of artificial
intelligence, the number of international scientific papers published and the amount of
patented invention has been ranked second in the world and some key technologies have
achieved an important breakthrough. Voice recognition, visual recognition technology
are world-leading, adaptive autonomous learning, intuitive perception, comprehensive
reasoning, mixed intelligence and group intelligence, etc., are with the ability of crossing
development, Chinese information processing, intelligent monitoring, biometric
identification, industrial robots, service robots, unmanned driving have gradually
developed into the practical application, artificial intelligence innovation and
entrepreneurship are increasingly active and a number of leading enterprises growing
remarkably have been widely concerned and recognized. The organic combination
between the accelerating accumulation of technical capacity, massive data resources,
huge application requirements and open market environment forms China's unique
advantages of artificial intelligence development.  
At the same time, we must also clearly see that the overall level of development of
China's artificial intelligence and that of the developed countries still have gaps. China
lacks major original results and there are huge gaps in the basic theory, the core algorithm,
key equipment, high-end chips, major products and systems, components, software and
interface and so on; scientific research institutions and enterprises have not yet formed
the ecological circle and industrial chain with international influence in short of
systematic research and development layout; artificial intelligence cutting-edge talent is
far from meeting the demand; the infrastructure, policies and regulations and the standard
system adapted to the development of artificial intelligence need to be improved.  
Facing the new situation and new demands, we must take the initiative to change the
strain, firmly grasp a major historical opportunity for the development of artificial
intelligence, closely judge the general trend, take the initiative to grasp the direction,
seize the initiative, lead the artificial intelligence development trend of the world, serve
the economic and social development, support national security, and promote the overall
competitiveness of the country and leapfrog development.  
II. Overall Requirements  
(A) Guiding Thought  
We shall comprehensively implement the spirit of the 18th CPC National Congress,
as well as the third, fourth, fifth and sixth plenary sessions of the 18th CPC Central

  

3  

  
  

  

  
  

Committee, and thoroughly study and implement the new spirit of the speeches delivered
by Xi Jinping and his new series of ideas. In accordance with the overall plan to seek
economic, political, cultural, social, and ecological progress and the Four-pronged
Strategy, we shall conscientiously implement the decision-making arrangements by CPC
Central Committee and State Council and the in-depth innovation-driven development
strategy to accelerate the integration of artificial intelligence and economy, society and
defense and enhance a new generation of artificial intelligence scientific and
technological innovation capacity as the main direction. We shall develop intelligent
economy, construct intelligent society, safeguard national security, build the ecosystem
with cluster integration of knowledge, technology, industry and mutual support of talent,
system, culture, foresee the risks and challenges, propel sustainable development as the
center of the intelligent, and as a result comprehensively enhance the social productive
forces, national strength and national competitiveness for the purpose to speed up the
construction of innovative countries and the science and technology power of the world,
to achieve "two hundred years" goals and to provide strong support for the great
rejuvenation of the nation.  
(B) Basic Principles  
Leadership of technology. We shall grasp the developmental trend of artificial
intelligence in the world, highlight the foresight of R & D deployment, explore the layout
in the key frontier areas, provide long-term support, strive to achieve transformational
and subversive breakthroughs in theory, methods, tools and systems, comprehensively
enhance the original innovation capability of artificial intelligence, accelerate the
construction of first-mover advantages and achieve high-end leading developments.  
Systematic Layouts. The making of targeted systematic development strategy shall
base on different characteristics of basic research, technology development, industrial
development and industry application. We shall give full play to the advantages of the
socialist system that concentrates on doing things, promote the layout of projects, bases,
talent pool, organically converge deployed major projects and new tasks, echelon the
current urgent needs and long-term developments, and create a collaborative force
between innovation capacity building, institutional reform and policy environment.  
Market-oriented. We shall follow the rules of the market, adhere to the application oriented, highlight the main role of enterprises in the choice of technology companies and
the making of industry product standards, accelerate the commercial applications of
artificial intelligence technology and form the competitive advantage. We shall handle
the relationship between the government and market and make the best of governments’
role in planning guidance, policy support, security, market regulation, environmental
construction, ethical regulations and other aspects.  
Open Source. We shall advocate the concept of open source and sharing, promote
the sharing of the production, research and innovation. We shall follow coordinated
development law of the economic development and national defense construction,
promote the two-way conversion application of military and civilian scientific and

  

4  

  
  

  

  
  

technological achievements, build and share military and civilian innovation resources,
form the new pattern of military and civilian integration of all elements, multi-field, high
efficiency. We shall actively participate in global R & D and management of artificial
intelligence, optimize the allocation of innovative resources on a global scale.  
(C) Strategic goals  
Divided in three steps:  
The first step, by 2020, is to keep up the overall technology and application of
artificial intelligence with the advanced level of the world. Artificial intelligence industry
has become a new important economic growth point, and artificial intelligence
technology application has become a new way to improve people's livelihood, s
supported the goal of the struggle of China’s entry into the ranks of innovative countries
and the achievement of a moderately prosperous society.  
- A new generation of artificial intelligence theory and technology made important
progress. Large-scale data intelligence, cross-media intelligence, group intelligence,
hybrid enhanced intelligence, autonomous intelligence systems and other basic theory
and core technology will have achieved important progress, and artificial intelligence
models, core devices, high-end equipment and basic softwares will have achieved
landmark results.  
- Artificial intelligence industry competitiveness develops into the international first
phalanx. We shall make the initial establishment of artificial intelligence technology
standards, service system and industrial ecological chain, cultivate a number of the
world's leading artificial intelligence backbone enterprises, make the scale of artificial
intelligence core industry more than 150 billion yuan, and drive the scale of related
industries more than 1 trillion yuan.  
- Further optimize artificial intelligence development environment. We shall focus
on the field of innovation and application, gather a number of high-level personnel and
innovation team, and establish initially artificial intelligence ethics norms, policies and
regulations of some areas.  
The second step:by 2025, we shall achieve a major breakthrough in artificial
intelligence basic theory, and parts of the technology and application will be at a worldleading level. We shall make artificial intelligence become the main driving force of
China's industrial upgrading and economic transformation, and make positive progress in
the construction of an artificial intelligence society.  
- We shall initially establish a new generation of artificial intelligence theory and
technology system with independent learning ability of artificial intelligence to achieve a
breakthrough in many areas, and to obtain leading research results.  
- We shall make artificial intelligence industry develop into the global high-end
value chain. We shall make a new generation of artificial intelligence widely used in

  

5  

  
  

  

  
  

intelligent manufacturing, intelligent medical care, intelligent cities, intelligent
agriculture, national defense construction and other fields. The scale of the core industry
scale of artificial intelligence will be worth than 400 billion yuan, driving the scale of
related industries to be more than 5 trillion yuan.  
- We shall make initial establishment of artificial intelligence laws and regulations,
ethical norms and policy systems, and form artificial intelligence safety assessment and
control capabilities.  
The third step: by 2030, we shall make artificial intelligence theory, technology and
application achieve the world's leading level to be the major artificial intelligence
innovation center of the world, intelligent economy, intelligent society achieve
remarkable results, and lay an important foundation for China’s entry into the forefront of
the innovative countries and economic powers.  
- We shall form a more mature and new generation of artificial intelligence theory
and technology system. We shall make a major breakthrough in the brain intelligence,
independent intelligence, mixed intelligence and group intelligence and other areas, have
an important impact in the field of international artificial intelligence and occupy the
commanding heights of artificial intelligence technology.  
- We shall make the competitiveness of artificial intelligence industry reach the
international advanced level. We shall expand widely and deeply artificial intelligence in
production and life, social governance, national defense construction and all aspects,
form the complete industrial chain and high-end industrial cluster of core technology, key
systems, support platform and intelligent application, make core industry scale of
artificial intelligence be more than 1 Trillion yuan, driving the scale of related industries
be more than 10 trillion yuan.  
- We shall form a number of the world's leading artificial intelligence technology
innovation and personnel training base, and build more comprehensive laws and
regulations, ethics and policy system of artificial intelligence  
.  
(D) Overall deployment.  
The development of artificial intelligence is a complex systeic project related to the
overall situation. In accordance with the layout of "build a system, grasp the dual
attributes, adhere to the Trinity, strengthen the four support" , we shall form the strategic
path for an healthy and sustainable developments of artificial intelligence.  
Constructing open and cooperative artificial intelligence technology innovation
system. In view of the weak theoretical basis of the original theory and the lack of major
products and systems, we shall establish a new generation of artificial intelligence basic
theory and key common technology system, layout the construction of major scientific
and technological innovation base, strengthen the artificial intelligence high-end talent

  

6  

  
  

  

  
  

team, promote innovation and interaction with the main body and form continuous
innovation ability of artificial intelligence.  
Grasp the characteristics of a high degree of integration of the artificial intelligence
technology attributes and social attributes. It is necessary to increase the artificial
intelligence development and application of efforts to maximize the potential of artificial
intelligence; but also to predict the challenges of artificial intelligence, coordination of
industrial policies, innovative policies and social policies to achieve the development of
incentive and reasonable regulation of coordination and maximize the risk prevention.  
Adhere to the "Three in One" promotion of research and development, product
applications and industry training an artificial intelligence. We shall adapt to the
characteristics and trends of artificial intelligence development, strengthen the integration
of innovation chain and industrial chain and interactive evolution of technology supply
and market demand, promote the application and industrial upgrading by technological
breakthroughs. At the same time of a large-scale promotion of technology applications
and industrial development, we shall strengthen the long-term R & D layout and research,
achieve rolling development and continuous improvement to ensure that the theory is in
the front, the techologies are in the commanding heights and the application is safe and
controllable.  
Fully support science and technology, economic, social development and national
security. Through artificial intelligence technology, we will make a break-through in
comprehensively reaising the innovation capability of our country. We shall strengthen
the artificial intelligence industry, cultivate the smart economy to create a new growth
cycle for future ten years or even decades of economic prosperity of China; we shall
build an artificial intelligence society for the development of the world's science and
technology, for the improvement of people's livelihood and welfare in the society and for
the implementation of the ideology of people-centered development; we shall enhance
the national defense strength of artificial intelligence to protect and safeguard national
security.  
III. Key Tasks  
Based on the national development of the overall situation, we shall accurately grasp
the development trend of global artificial intelligence, identify breakthroughs and the
main direction, comprehensively enhance the basic ability of scientific and technological
innovation, comprehensively expand the depth of application of key areas, and
comprehensively enhance the economic and social development and national defense
application level.  
(A) Build open and cooperative technology system of artificial intelligence .  
Based on the increase of the source of artificial intelligence innovation supply, we
shall ensure that China's artificial intelligence technology level ranks highly among the
world and make more contributions to artificial intelligence development via the

  

7  

  
  

  

  
  

deployment of the frontier basic theory, the key common technology, the basic platform,
personnel and other aspects and the promotion of open source sharing and the ability of
the continuous system innovation enhancement.  
1. Establish a new generation of basic theory of artificial intelligence system.  
We shall focus on the major scientific frontier issues of artificial intelligence, take
into account the current needs and long-term development, break through the basic theory
of artificial intelligence bottlenecks as the focus, and ensure that advanced layout may
lead to artificial intelligence paradigm transformation of basic research, promote crossintegration of disciplines for sustainable development and depth applications of artificial
intelligence and provide strong scientific reserves.  
Breaking the bottleneck of basic theory of application. We shall target at the
direction of the basic theory of the application of clear objectives and the expectation of
leading artificial intelligence technology and enhance the large data intelligence, crossmedia perception computing, human-machine hybrid intelligence, group intelligence,
autonomous collaboration and decision-making and other basic theoretical research. The
large data intelligence theory focuses on breaking the difficult issues such as
unsupervised learning, comprehensive depth reasoning, and establishing data-driven,
natural language understanding as the core cognitive computing model, from large data to
knowledge, from knowledge to decision-making ability. Cross-media perceptual
computing theory focuses on low-cost and low-power intelligent perception, complex
scene active perception, natural environment auditory and verbal perception, multimedia
autonomous learning and other theoretical methods to achieve superman perception and
high dynamic, high-dimensional, multi-mode distributed large scene perception. The
theory of mixed enhancement and intelligence emphasizes the theory of context
comprehension and decision learning, intuition reasoning and causal model, memory and
knowledge evolution of man-machine coordination and communion, and realizes the
mixed and enhanced intelligence which is close to or more than human intelligence level.
The theory of group intelligence focuses on the organization, emergence and learning of
group intelligence, and establishes an expressible and computable group intelligence
incentive algorithm and model to form an Internet based group intelligent theory system.
Autonomous collaborative control and optimization decision-making theory focus on
breakthroughs for autonomous unmanned systems of collaborative perception and
interaction, autonomous collaborative control and optimization of decision-making,
knowledge-driven human resources ternary coordination and interoperability theory and
form theoretical architecture of independent intelligent unmanned system innovation .  
Layout the basic theory of frontier research. On basis of the direction of artificial
intelligence paradigm change, we shall forward-looking layout advanced machine
learning, brain-like intelligence calculation, quantum intelligence computing and other
cross-domain basic theory research. Advanced machine learning theory focuses on
breakthroughs in adaptive learning, autonomous learning and other theoretical methods to
achieve strong ability of artificial intelligence high interpretability. The theory and
method of brain-like intelligence focuses on the breakthrough of the theory and method

  

8  

  
  

  

  
  

of information coding, processing, memory, learning and reasoning, forms brain-like
complex system and brain-like control, and establishes a new model and brain-inspired
cognitive computing model. Quantum intelligent computing theory focuses on quantum
acceleration of machine learning methods, the establishment of high-performance
computing and quantum algorithm hybrid model and form highly efficient and accurate
quantum artificial intelligence system architecture.  
To carry out interdisciplinary exploratory research. We shall promote the artificial
fusion of artificial intelligence and neuroscience, cognitive science, quantum science,
psychology, mathematics, economics, sociology and other related basic disciplines,
strengthen the introduction of artificial intelligence algorithm, model development of
mathematical basic theory research, pay attention to artificial intelligence law and ethical
theory of basic theory to support the original strong, non-consensus exploratory research,
encourage scientists to explore freely and to capture the forefront of artificial intelligence
problems and put forward more original theory to make more original discoveries.
Box 1 Basic Theory
1. Large data intelligence theory. This paper studies the new methods of artificial
intelligence combined with data-driven and knowledge-guided approaches, the theory and
method of cognitive computing with natural language understanding and image graphics as
the core, the theory and method of comprehensive depth reasoning and creative artificial
intelligence, the basic theory of intelligent decision-making under incomplete information
and the framework, data-driven general artificial intelligence mathematical model and
theory.
2. Cross-media perceptual computing theory. We shall study transcendental perception
of human visual perception, active visual perception and computation for the real world,
auditory perception and calculation of natural acoustic scenes, verbal perception and
computation of natural interactive environment, human perception and computation for
asynchronous sequences and intelligent perception of self - learning, urban full - scale
intelligent perception reasoning engine.
3. Hybrid enhanced intelligent theory. We shall do research on "people in the loop" of
the hybrid enhanced intelligence, man-machine intelligent symbiosis behavior and braincomputer collaboration, machine intuitionistic reasoning and causal models, associative
memory model and knowledge evolution methods, complex data and tasks to enhance
intelligent learning methods, cloud Robot collaborative computing methods, contextual
understanding in the real world environment and man-machine group synergy.
4. Group intelligence theory. We shall do research on group intelligence structure
theory and organization method, group intelligence incentive mechanism and emergence
mechanism, group intelligent learning theory and method and group intelligent general
computing paradigm and model.
5. Autonomous collaborative control and optimization decision theory. We shall do
research on cooperative awareness and interaction for autonomous unmanned systems,
collaborative control and optimization decision-making for autonomous unmanned systems,
knowledge-driven anthropogenic ternary coordination and interoperability theory.
6. Advanced machine learning theory. We shall study statistical learning basic theory,
uncertainty reasoning and decision making, distributed learning and interaction, privacy

  

9  

  
  

  

  
  

protection learning, small sample learning, deep reinforcement learning, unsupervised
learning, semi-supervised learning, active learning and other learning theory and efficient
model.
7. Brain intelligent computing theory. We shall do research on brain perception, brain
learning, brain memory mechanism and computational fusion, brain-like complex system,
brain control and other theories and methods.
8. Quantum Intelligence Computing Theory. We shall explore the quantum mode and
intrinsic mechanism of brain cognition, study efficient quantum intelligence models and
algorithms, high-performance high-bit quantum artificial intelligence processors and realtime quantum artificial intelligence systems that can interact with external environment.
2. Establish a new generation of artificial intelligence key common technology
system.  
Aiming at the urgent need to enhance the international competitiveness of China's
artificial intelligence, the new generation of artificial intelligence key common
technology of the R & D deployment should focus on the algorithm, the data and
hardware to enhance the perceptions, knowledge, cognitive reasoning and humancomputer interaction capacity as the focus and form open compatible, stable and mature
technology system.  
Knowledge computing engine and knowledge service technology. Focusing on
knowledge processing, deep search and visual interaction core technology, we shall
achieve continuous knowledge of incremental incremental access with capabilities of the
identification of concept, entity discovery, attribute prediction, knowledge evolution
modeling and relationship mining, and form billions of entities covering the scale multisource, multidisciplinary and multi-data types of cross-media knowledge maps.  
Cross-media analysis reasoning technology. Focusing on cross-media unified
characterization, association understanding and knowledge mining, knowledge map
construction and learning, knowledge evolution and reasoning and intelligent description
and generation technology, we shall achieve cross-media knowledge representation,
analysis, mining, reasoning, evolution and utilization and build an analytical reasoning
engine.  
Key technologies of group intelligence. Focusing on breakthroughs based on the
Internet's popular collaboration, large-scale collaborative knowledge resource
management and open sharing technology, we shall establish group knowledge
representation framework, achieve the cluster and the integration based on group
knowledge-based knowledge acquisition and open dynamic environment and support
group perception, collaboration and evolution covering the scale of the nation's tens of
millions.  
New architecture and new technology of hybrid enhanced intelligence. Focusing on
breakthroughs in the integration of human-computer interaction and implementation of
the integrated model, intelligent computing forward new sensor, universal hybrid

  

10  

  
  

  

  
  

computing architecture and other core technologies, we shall build adaptive environment
to adapt to the hybrid intelligent system, man-machine group hybrid enhanced intelligent
systems and support surroundings.  
Independent unmanned system of intelligent technology. Focusing on independent
unmanned system computing architecture, complex dynamic scene perception and
understanding, real-time precision positioning, adaptive environment for complex
intelligent navigation and other common technology, unmanned aerial vehicle control
and automotive, ship and rail traffic and other intelligent technology, service robots,
special robots and other core technologies, we shall support unmanned system
applications and industrial development.  
Virtual reality intelligent modeling technology. Focusing on virtual object intelligent
behavior modeling technology, we shall enhance the virtual reality of intelligent object
behavior of social, diversity and interactive vividness, achieve virtual reality and enhance
the reality and other technologies and artificial intelligence organic combination and
efficient interaction.  
Intelligent computing chip and system. Focusing on breakthroughs in energyefficient, reconfigurable brain computing chips and computational imaging capabilities of
brain-like vision sensor technology, we shall research and develop high-performance
brain neural network architecture and hardware systems with independent learning ability
to achieve the brain intelligent system of multimedia awareness of information,
intelligent growth and reason .  
Natural language processing technology. Focusing on the natural language of
grammatical logic, character conceptual representation and in-depth semantic analysis of
the core technology, we shall promote the effective and free communication between
man and the machine and achieve multi-style multi-language multi-domain natural
language intelligent understanding and automatic generation.
Box 2 Key Common Technology
1. Knowledge computing engine and knowledge service technology. We shall do
research on knowledge computing and visual interaction engine, innovation design, digital
creativity and visual media as the core business intelligence and other knowledge service
technologies and carry out large-scale biological data knowledge discoveries.
2. Cross-media analysis reasoning technology. We shall do research on cross-media
unified characterization, association understanding and knowledge mining, knowledge map
construction and learning, knowledge evolution and reasoning, intelligent description and
generation technologies and develop cross-media analysis reasoning engine and verification
system.
3. Group key technology of intelligence. We shall carry out the active knowledge and
discovery of group intelligence, knowledge acquisition and acquisition, collaboration and
sharing, evaluation and evolution, human-computer integration and enhancement, selfmaintenance and security interaction and other key technology research and build group
intelligence space service architecture, intelligent collaborative decision and control

  

11  

  
  

  

  
  

technology.
4. Hybrid enhanced intelligent new architecture and new technology. We shall do
research on hybrid enhanced intelligent core technology, cognitive computing framework,
new hybrid computing architecture, man-machine sharing and online intelligent learning
technology and the parallel management and control of the hybrid enhanced intelligent
framework.
5. Independent unmanned system of intelligent technology. We shall do research on
intelligent robot, marine robot, polar robot technology, unmanned workshop / intelligent
factory intelligent technology, high-end intelligent control technology and autonomous
unmanned operation, and so on. This paper studies the autonomous control technology of
robot and robot arm based on computer vision localization, navigation and recognition in
complex environment.
6. Virtual reality intelligent modeling technology. This paper studies the mathematical
expression and modeling method of intelligent behavior of virtual object, the problem of
natural, continuous and deep interaction between virtual object and virtual environment and
users and the technology and method system of intelligent object modeling.
7. Intelligent computing chip and system. We shall do research and develop neural
network processor and energy-efficient, reconfigurable brain computing chip, a new type of
sensor chip and system, intelligent computing architecture and systems, artificial
intelligence operating system, and mixed computing architecture suitable for artificial
intelligence.
8. Natural language processing technology. We shall study the short text of the
calculation and analysis technology, cross-language text mining technology and machineaware intelligence for semantic understanding of technology and the man-machine dialogue
system of multimedia information understanding.
3. The layout of artificial intelligence innovation platform.  
We shall construct innovative platform of artificial intelligence and strengthen the
support for the application, research and development of artificial intelligence. Artificial
intelligence open source hardware and software infrastructure platform focuses on
building unified computing framework platform supporting knowledge reasoning,
probability statistics, depth learning and other artificial intelligence paradigm and forms a
promotion of artificial intelligence software, hardware and intelligent clouds between the
ecological chain. The group intelligent service platform focuses on the construction of the
knowledge resource management and the open sharing tool based on the large-scale
cooperation of the Internet, and forms the platform and the service environment for the
innovation of the industry and university. The hybrid enhanced intelligent support
platform focuses on the construction of a heterogeneous real-time computing engine
supporting large-scale training and a new computing cluster, providing a service-oriented,
systematic platform and solution for complex intelligent computing. Autonomous
unmanned system support platform focuses on the construction of autonomous systems
for autonomous systems in the environment of environmental awareness, autonomous
collaborative control, intelligent decision-making and other artificial intelligence
common core technology support system and forms development and test environment of
open, modular, reconfigurable autonomous unmanned system. Artificial intelligence

  

12  

  
  

  

  
  

basic data and security detection platforms focus on the construction of artificial
intelligence for the public data resource library, the standard test data set, cloud service
platform and form artificial intelligence algorithms and platform security test evaluation
methods, techniques, norms and tools. We shall promote all kinds of open source of
common software and technology platform. All kinds of platforms shall be in accordance
with the requirements of the depth of integration of military and civilian and related
provisions and promote the sharing of military and civilian sharing.
Box 3 Basic Support Platform
1. The hardware and software infrastructure platform of the artificial intelligence open
source. We shall establish open source software platform of large data artificial intelligence,
the artificial intelligence cloud service platform of collaborative terminal and cloud, the
new multi-intelligent sensor and integrated platform, the new product design platform of
artificial intelligence hardware, the intelligent service platform of large data .
2. Group intelligent service platform. We shall establish a group of knowledge-based
computing support platform, the public service system of science and technology, the
development and verification automation system of group intelligence software, the
learning and innovation system of group intelligence software, decision-making system of
open environment and the economic service system of group-sharing .
3. Hybrid enhanced intelligent support platform. We shall establish artificial
intelligence supercomputing center, large-scale super intelligent computing support
environment, online intelligent education platform, "people in the loop" driving brain,
industrial development complexity analysis and the intelligent platform of risk assessment,
the intelligent security platform of supporting nuclear power security operations and the
research and development and testing platform of machine technology
4. Autonomous unmanned system support platform. We shall establish independent
and supportive platform of unmanned system common core technology, supportive
platform of unmanned aerial vehicle independent control and auto, ship and rail traffic
automatic driving, the supportive platform of service robot, space robot, marine robot, polar
robot and the support platform of intelligent factory and intelligent control equipment
technical and so on.
5. The basic data and security detection platform of artificial intelligence. We shall
construct public data resource library of artificial intelligence data-oriented, standard test
data set, cloud service platform, establish algorithms and platform security test model and
evaluation model of artificial intelligence and research and develop security evaluation
tools of artificial intelligence algorithms and platform .
4. Accelerate the training of high-end talent of gathered artificial intelligence.  
We shall regard the construction of high-end talent team as the most important
development of artificial intelligence, adhere to the combination of training and
introduction, improve the artificial intelligence education system, strengthen the talent
pool and echelon construction, especially to accelerate the introduction of the world's top
talent and young talent, and form China's talent highland of artificial intelligence .  

  

13  

  
  

  

  
  

We shall cultivate high level of artificial intelligence innovation talent and team,
support and cultivate the development potential of artificial intelligence leading talent,
strengthen the basic research of artificial intelligence, applied research, operation and
maintenance aspects of professional and technical personnel training. We shall draw
attention to the training of compound talents, focus on cultivating through the artificial
intelligence theory, methods, technology, products and applications of vertical composite
talents, and master the "artificial intelligence" economy, society, management, standards,
law and other horizontal compound talents. Through major research and development
tasks and base platform construction, we shall converge high-end talents of artificial
intelligence and form a number of high-level innovation teams in a number of artificial
intelligence. We shall encourage and guide domestic innovative talents and strengthen
cooperation with the world's top research institutions of artificial intelligence.  
We shall increase the introduction of high-end artificial intelligence talent. We shall
open up specialized channels, implement special policies to achieve high precision
artificial intelligence introduction. We shall focus on the introduction of neural
awareness, machine learning, automatic driving, intelligent robots and other international
top scientists and high level of innovation teams. We shall encourage the use of project
cooperation, technical advice, etc. flexible introduction of artificial intelligence talent.
We shall co-ordinate the use of "thousands of people plan" and other existing talent plans
to strengthen the field of artificial intelligence talents, especially the introduction of
outstanding young talent. We shall Improve the enterprise human capital cost accounting
related policies and encourage enterprises, scientific research institutions to introduce
artificial intelligence talent.  
We shall construct artificial intelligence. We shall improve the field of artificial
intelligence disciplines, establish artificial intelligence professional, promote the building
of artificial intelligence as the first-class discipline, establish artificial intelligence college
in the pilot institutions as soon as possible, increase the enrollment number of masters
and doctors in the related disciplines of artificial intelligence. We shall encourage
colleges and universities to broaden the content of artificial intelligence professional
education on the basis of the original basis, form a new model of "artificial intelligence
X" compound professional training and attach importance to cross-integration of
professional education of artificial intelligence and mathematics, computer science,
physics, biology, psychology, sociology, law and other disciplines. We shall strengthen
cooperation in production and research and encourage universities, research institutes and
enterprises and other institutions to carry out the construction of artificial intelligence
disciplines.
(B) Cultivate a high-end and efficient intelligent economy.  
Accelerate the cultivation of an AI industry that drives innovation; promote deep
integration between AI and other industries; and form a data-driven, man-machine
collaborated, cross-border integrated, and collective intelligent economy. Data and
knowledge become the first element of economic growth. Man-machine collaboration
becomes the mainstream production and service. Cross-border integration becomes an

  

14  

  
  

  

  
  

important economic model. Personalized demand and customization are new consumer
trends. There is a significant increase in productivity. Industries strive towards high-end
value chains, acting as strong support for real economic development, and
comprehensively enhancing its quality and efficiency.
1. Significantly developing emerging industries in AI.
Speed up the application of key technologies of AI. Promote technology integration
and the innovation of new business models. Promote the innovation of smart products in
key sectors, and actively cultivate new forms of AI. Lay out high-end industry value
chains, and build internationally competitive AI industry clusters.  
Intelligent hardware and software. Develop AI for operating systems, databases,
middleware, development tools and other key basic software. Break through graphics
processors and other core hardware; research on image recognition, speech recognition,
machine translation, intelligent interaction, knowledge processing, control decision
system solutions, foster growth for AI applications based on the hardware and software
industry.  
Smart robots. Capture the core components of intelligent robots, special sensors,
improve the intelligent robot hardware interface standards, software interface protocol
standards and safety standards. Develop intelligent industrial robots, intelligent service
robots. The aim is to to achieve large-scale applications for these robots and eventually
enter the international market. Develop and promote of space robots, marine robots, polar
robots and other special intelligent robots. Establish safety standards and standard
physical characteristics for these intelligent robots.  
Intelligent vehicles. Develop self-driving vehicles and rail transportation systems.
Strengthen the integration between vehicle automatic perception, self-driving technology,
the Internet of Vehicles, the internet and other technologies. Support the development of
traffic intelligence perception system, the formation of China's own self-driving platform
technology system and product assembly capabilities. Explore car sharing mode in selfdriving. Develop consumer and commercial UAVs and unmanned boats. Establish test
identification, testing, athletics and other professional service systems. Improve airspace
and water management measures.  
Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality. Break through high-performance software
modeling, content shooting generation, enhance interaction between reality and
humans/computers, integrate the environment with tools and other key technologies.
Develop virtual display devices, optical devices, high-performance True 3D Volumetric
Display Technique, development engines and other products. Establish virtual reality
and enhanced realism technologies, products, service standards and evaluation systems to
promote the integration of key industries.  
Smart Terminals. Speed up smart terminals' core technology and product
development. Develop a new generation of smart phones, automotive smart terminals

  

15  

  
  

  

  
  

and other mobile smart terminal products and equipment to encourage the development
of smart watches, smart headphones, smart glasses and other end products that can be
worn to expand product form and application services.  
The Fundamental Components of the Internet of Things (IoT). Develop a new
generation of the Internet of Things (IoT) to support the highly sensitive, highly reliable
intelligent sensor devices and chips. Capture radio frequency identification, close-range
machine communication and other key technologies such as Internet and low-power
processor and other key devices.
2. Accelerate the promotion of industrial intelligence upgrades.  
Promote the integration of AI with industrial innovations. In manufacturing,
agriculture, logistics, finance, business, home and other key industries and areas, carry
out pilot applications for AI demonstrations. Promote the application of AI scale, and
comprehensively enhance the level of industrial development intelligence.  
Intelligent manufacturing. Focus on the major needs of manufacturing. Promote key
technological equipment for intelligent manufacturing, the core support software,
industrial Internet systems integration applications. Research and develop intelligent
products and intelligent interconnection products, intelligent manufacturing tools and
systems, and intelligent manufacturing cloud service platforms. Promote intelligent
manufacturing processes, discrete intelligent manufacturing, network collaborative
manufacturing, remote diagnosis and operation and maintenance services and other new
manufacturing model, the establishment of intelligent manufacturing standard system to
promote the manufacturing life cycle of intelligent activities.  
Intelligent agriculture. Develop agricultural intelligent sensors and control systems,
intelligent agricultural equipment, farm machinery field operations autonomous
system. Establish Intelligent Integrated Agricultural Information Remote Sensing
Monitoring Network. Establish agricultural big dat-driven intelligent decision analysis
system to carry out intelligent farms, intelligent plants, intelligent pastures, intelligent
fishing grounds, intelligent orchards, intelligent processing workshops of agricultural
products, agricultural green intelligent supply chains and other integrated application
demonstration.  
Intelligent logistics. Strengthen intelligent loading and unloading, handling,
packaging & sorting, processing and distribution of intelligent logistics equipment
research and development and application. Construct deep perception intelligent storage
systems to enhance storage operations' level of management and efficiency. Through
intelligent logistics, improve public information platforms and command systems,
product quality certifications and traceability systems, and intelligent distribution
scheduling systems.  
Smart finance. Establish large financial data systems to enhance financial
multimedia data processing and understanding. Innovative smart financial products and

  

16  

  
  

  

  
  

services. Develop new financial formats. Encourage the financial industry to apply
intelligent customer service, intelligent monitoring and other technologies and
equipment. Establish financial risk early detection, prevention and control systems.  
Business Intelligence Encourage cross-media analysis and reasoning. Apply
knowledge computing engines, knowledge services and other new technologies in the
field of business. Promote AI based on new business services and decision-making
systems. Construct geography, network media, basic urban data and other cross-media
big data platforms to support enterprises carrying out intelligent business. Encourage the
provision of customized business intelligence decision-making services around individual
needs and business management.  
Smart home. Strengthen the integration of AI technology with home building
systems to enhance construction equipment and household products' levels of
intelligence. R&D to adapt to different scenarios of home interoperability protocols,
interface standards. Enhance home appliances, durable goods and other household
products' perceptiblity and connectivity capabilities. Support intelligent home business
innovation service model, to provide Internet sharing solution.
3. Significantly develop Intelligent Enterprise  
Large-scale promotion of Intelligent Enterprise upgrades. Support and guide
enterprises in the design, production, management, logistics and marketing and other core
business segments of the application of AI technology. Build a new enterprise
organizational structure and mode of operation, the formation of manufacturing and
services, integrating intelligent finance with business model. Develop personalized
customizations. Expand the supply of intelligent products. Encourage large-scale Internet
enterprises to build cloud manufacturing platforms and service platforms, for
manufacturing enterprises online to provide key industrial software and model library.
Carry out manufacturing capacity outsourcing services to promote the development of
SMEs towards AI.  
Promote the application of smart factories. Strengthen the application of key
technologies and system methods of smart factories. Focus on the promotion of
production line reconfiguration and dynamic intelligent dispatching, production
equipment, intelligent materials and cloud data acquisition, multi-dimensional human
resources collaboration and interoperability technology. Encourage and guide enterprises
to build big data systems for factories, networked distributed production facilities.
Achieve the production of equipment network, visualization of production data, the
production process transparency, unmanned production sites, and enhance the
intelligence level of factory operations and management.  
Accelerate the cultivation of AI industry leader. In UAVs, voice recognition, image
recognition and other areas, accelerate the capabilities of AI to become a global leader
and brand. In intelligent robots, smart cars, wearable equipment, virtual reality and other
emerging areas, speed up the cultivation of a number of leading enterprises. Support the

  

17  

  
  

  

  
  

AI enterprises to strengthen patent layouts. Take the lead or participate in international
standard setting. Promote domestic enterprises and their pioneering work, industry
organizations, research institutions, universities and other joint alliances in China's AI
industry. Support the backbone enterprises to build open source hardware factory, open
source software platforms, the formation of various types of resources to promote the
ecological innovation. Promote the development of micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises developments and all-around applications. Support all institutions and
platforms that use AI to provide professional services.
4. Take AI to new heights  
Combine the regional basis and advantages, according to the field of AI applications
related to the layout of the relevant industries. Encourage local around the AI industry
chain and innovation chain, gather high-end elements, high-end enterprises, high-end
talent. Build AI industry clusters and elevate innovation to new heights.  
Carry out pilot demonstrations for applications of AI. In the areas where the AI is
better and the development potential is bigger, the organization will carry out the national
AI innovation experiment. Explore the system mechanism, policy regulations, the
cultivation of talent and so on the big reform, promotes the transformation of the AI
achievement, the big product integration innovation and the demonstration application.
Form replicable, promotable experience, leading to promote intelligent economy and
intelligent social development.  
Construct National AI Industrial Park. Relying on the national independent
innovation demonstration area and the national high-tech industry development zone and
other innovative carriers, strengthen the optimal allocation and combination of science
and technology, talent, finance, policy and other elements. Accelerate the construction of
AI industry innovation clusters.  
Construct national AI base. Rely on people engaged in AI research from colleges,
universities, scientific research institutes concentrated areas. Build AI field of
professional innovation platform and other new entrepreneurial service agencies, the
construction of a number of low-cost, convenient, all elements, open AI all creation
space, Hatch service system, to promote the transformation of artificial and technological
achievements of scientific and technological transformation, to support AI innovation and
entrepreneurship.
(C) Construct safe and convenient intelligent society.  
Around the goal of improving people's living standards and quality, speed up the
depth of the application of AI, develop all-encompassing, ubiquitous intelligent
environments, which will significantly increase the whole society's level of
intelligence. More and more simple, repetitive, dangerous tasks are completed by AI,
through which individual creativity has been greatly utilized. This has led to the creation
of more high-quality and high-comfort jobs; precision intelligent services are more

  

18  

  
  

  

  
  

diverse, and people can enjoy high-quality services and a more convenient life in general;
social governance, due to the substantial increase in the level of intelligence, has led to
more secure and efficient social operations.
1. The development of convenient and efficient intelligent services .  
Around education, health care, pension and other urgent needs in society, accelerate
the application of innovative AI for the public to provide personalized, diversified, highquality services.  
Intelligent education. Use intelligent technology to accelerate the promotion of
personnel training models, teaching methods reform. The new education system includes
interactive learning and intelligent learning. Carry intelligent campus construction,
promote AI in teaching, management, resource construction and other full-scale
applications. Develop three-dimensional integrated teaching fields, based on big data
intelligence online learning platforms. Develop intelligent education assistants, establish
intelligent, fast and comprehensive education analysis systems. Establish a learnercentered educational environment. Provide precision push education services to achieve
daily education and life-long education.  
Intelligent medical care. Promote the use of new AI methods of treatment for new
ways to establish a rapid and accurate intelligent medical system. Explore smart hospital
construction. Development man-machine coordination in surgical robots, intelligent
clinic assistants. Research and development of flexible, wearable, biologically
compatible physiological monitoring systems. Research and development of humancomputer collaboration in clinical intelligent diagnosis and treatment programs to achieve
intelligent image recognition, pathological classification and intelligent multiconsultation. Based on AI, carry out large-scale genome recognition, proteomics,
metabolomics and other research and development of new drugs to promote intelligent
pharmaceutical regulation. Strengthen epidemic intelligence monitoring, prevention, and
control.  
Intelligent health and old age. Strengthen collective intelligent health management.
Break through in big data healthcare analytics, Internet of Things and other key
technologies. Research and develop health management wearable equipment and home
intelligent health testing and monitoring equipment. Promote health management from
discrete monitoring to continuous monitoring, and change from short process
management to long process management. Construct smart old-age communities and
institutions. Build a safe and convenient smart pension infrastructure system. Improve
the intelligence and intuitiveness of elderly products. Develop audio-visual aids, physical
auxiliary equipment and other intelligent home care equipment. Expand space for
activities for the elderly. Develop mobile social and service platforms for the elderly and
companion care services to enhance the quality of life of the elderly.
2. Promote social governance intelligence.

  

19  

  
  

  

  
  

Address the hot and difficult issues in administrative management, judicial
management, urban management, environmental protection and other social governance
by promoting the application of AI technology to promote social governance
modernization.  
Intelligent government. Develop AI platforms for government services and decisionmaking. Develop decision-making engines for the open environment and to promote
them in the judgment of complex social problems, policy assessment, risk warning,
emergency response and other major strategic decision-making aspects. Strengthen the
integration between government information resources and accurate forecasting of public
demand, as well as smooth communication channels between the government and the
public.  
Wisdom court. Establish a set of trial, personnel, data applications, judicial
disclosure and dynamic monitoring in one of the wisdom of the court data platform.
Promote the application of AI in evidence collection, case analysis, legal document
reading and analysis. Achieve intelligence in the trial system and judicial capacity.  
Smart cities. Construct the infrastructure for smart cities.
Develop smart
construction, and promote the upgrading of underground corridors and other municipal
infrastructure. Construct big data urban platform to build a multi-heterogeneous data
integration of urban operation and management system to achieve the urban
infrastructure and urban green space, wetlands and other important ecological elements of
the comprehensive perception and the depth of urban complex system operation
awareness. Research and develop community public service information systems to
promote community service systems and residents of intelligent home system
collaboration. Promote periodical updates to smart urban planning, construction, and
management.  
Intelligent Transportation System. Study the establishment of self-driving vehicles
and vehicle infrastructure integration. Research and develop complex traffic under the
complex multi-dimensional traffic information platform, smart traffic control and
integrated operation to coordinate the command. Build smart traffic monitoring,
management, and service systems underground, on tracks, in the air and at sea.  
Intelligent environmental protection. Establish big data platform for smart
monitoring in the atmosphere, water, soil and other environmental areas. Build land and
sea interaction, land and earth interaction, and information-sharing intelligent
environment monitoring network and service platform. Research and develop intelligent
forecasting models and early warning programs for resource energy consumption and
environmental pollutant discharge. Strengthen the environmental protection and
intelligent prevention and control systems for sudden environmental events in BeijingTianjin-Hebei, Yangtze River Economic Zone and other major national strategic regions.
3. Use AI to Improve Public Safety Measures.

  

20  

  
  

  

  
  

Promote further applications of AI in the field of public safety, and promote the
construction of public safety intelligent monitoring and early warning and control
systems. Research and develop a variety of detection sensor technologies, video image
information analysis and identification technology, biometric identification technology,
intelligent security and police products, around the comprehensive management of the
community, criminal investigation, anti-terrorism and other urgent needs. Establish an
intelligent monitoring platform. Strengthen the intelligence of security equipment in key
public areas. Support the conditions of the community or the city based on AI to carry
out public security regional demonstration. Strengthen the AI of food safety protection.
Establish an intelligent food safety early warning system for food classification, warning
levels, and food safety risks and assessment. Strengthen the effective monitoring of
natural disasters. Build a comprehensive intelligent monitoring and early warning
response platform around earthquake disasters, geological disasters, meteorological
disasters, floods, marine disasters, and other major natural disasters.
4. Promote social interaction and mutual trust.
Encourage the role of AI technology in enhancing social interaction and promoting
credible communication. Strengthen the next generation of social network research and
development. Accelerate innovation in virtual reality and other technologies to promote
the integration between the virtual environment and physical environment, in order to
satisfy individual senses, analysis, judgment, decision-making, and other real-time
visceral needs. Implement such innovations in work, study, life, entertainment and in
other areas. Improve interpersonal communication needs by developing assistant products
that engage in intelligent interaction with the ability to accurately understand emotional
cues and mimic genuine human communication and demand to meet the virtuous
circle. Promote the integration of block chain technology and AI, establish a new social
credit system, and minimize the cost and risk of interpersonal communication.
(D) Strengthen AI in the field of military-civilian integration.
Depth implementation of military-civilian integration and development strategy.
Promote the formation of multi-element, multi-field, highly efficient AI integration of
military and civilian pattern. Build a new generation of AI based on the common theory
and key common technology research and development. Establish the normalization of
communication and coordination mechanism in scientific research institutes, universities,
enterprises and military units. Promote AI technology in military-civilian two-way
transformation. Strengthen a new generation of AI technology in command-anddecision, military deduction, defense equipment, strong support, and guide AI in the field
of defense technology to civilian applications. Encourage participation of folk scientific
research in the field of national defense intelligence and major scientific/technological
innovation tasks. Promote all kinds of AI technology quickly embedded in the field of
national defense innovation. Strengthen the military and civilian intelligence technology
standard system construction. Promote science and technology innovation platform base
of the overall layout and open sharing.

  

21  

  
  

  

  
  

(E) Build a safe and efficient intelligent infrastructure system.
Vigorously promote the construction of intelligent information infrastructure.
Enhance the traditional level of intelligent infrastructure to form a smart economy,
intelligent society, and satisfies national defense needs. Speed up the promotion of
information transmission as the core of the digital and network information infrastructure.
Set integration awareness, transmission, storage, computing, processing in one of the
intelligent information infrastructure changes. Optimize the upgrade of the network
infrastructure. Research and develop the layout for the fifth generation of mobile
communications (5G) system. Improve the Internet of Things infrastructure, to speed up
the integration of information network construction, improve low latency, and highthroughput transmission capacity. Co-ordinate the use of big data infrastructure,
strengthen data security and privacy protection. Provide massive data support for AI
research and development and extensive application. Build high-performance computing
infrastructure, and enhance the service support capabilities of the Supercomputing Center
for AI applications. Construct a distributable and efficient energy Internet, the formation
of multi-energy support complementary, timely and effective access to new energy
networks. Promote intelligent energy storage facilities, intelligent electricity facilities,
energy supply and demand information to achieve real-time matching and intelligent
response.
Box 4 Intelligent infrastructure
1. Network infrastructure. Speed up the layout of real-time collaboration with AI 5G
Enhance the technology research and development and application. Construct spaceoriented collaborative AI of high-precision navigation and positioning network. Strengthen
the core of intelligent sensor network technology research and key facilities. Develop and
support of intelligent industrial Internet, for unmanned car networking, research intelligence
Network security architecture. Speed up the construction of integrated information network
between land and sky. Promote the full integration between space-based information
network, the future of the Internet, and mobile communication network.
2. Big data infrastructure. Relying on the national data sharing exchange platform, data
open platform and other public infrastructures, construct government governance, public
services, industrial development, technology research and development and other fields of
large data base information database that support the implementation of national governance
data applications. Integrate various types of social data platforms and data center resources.
Form integrated service capabilities that cover the entire country, the layout is reasonable.
3. High performance computing infrastructure. Continue to strengthen the
supercomputing infrastructure, distributed computing infrastructure and cloud computing
center construction. Build a sustainable ecosystem for the consistent development of highperformance computing applications. Promote the next generation of supercomputer
research and development applications.

  

22  

  
  

  

  
  

(F) Lay out a new generation of AI major science and technology projects.
Focusing on China's AI needs and weak links, establish a new generation of major
scientific and technological projects in AI. Strengthen the overall co-ordination. Clarify
task boundaries and R&D focus. Form a new generation of major scientific and
technological projects in AI as the core. The existing R&D layout should support the
"1+N" AI Program.
"1" refers to a new generation of major scientific and technological projects in
AI. Focus on the basic theory and key common technology forward-looking layout,
including the study of big data intelligence, cross-media perception computing, hybrid
enhanced intelligence, group intelligence, autonomous collaborative control and decisionmaking theory. Compute engine and knowledge service technology, cross-media
analysis reasoning technology, group intelligent key technology, hybrid enhanced
intelligent new architecture and new technology, autonomous unmanned control
technology, open source sharing AI basic theory and common technology.
Continue to carry out the development of predictions and research in AI. Strengthen
the economic and social impacts of AI on the economic and social impact as well as their
countermeasures.
"N" refers to the national planning and deployment of AI research and development
projects. The focus is on strengthening the convergence of the new generation of major
scientific and technological projects. Collaboratively promote research in artificial
technology for breakthroughs and product development applications. Strengthen the
convergence of major national science and technology projects, in the "nuclear high base"
(core electronic devices, high-end general-purpose chips, basic software). Integrate
circuit equipment and other national science and technology major projects to support AI
hardware and software development. Strengthen the support between "Technological
Innovations 2030 - major projects." Speed up brain science and brain computing,
quantum information and quantum computing, intelligent manufacturing and robotics,
big data and other research, to provide support for major breakthroughs in AI. The
national key research and development program will continue to promote highperformance computing and other key special implementations, increasing support for
research and development of AI applications. The National Natural Science Foundation
will strengthen support for cross-disciplinary research and exploration in the field of
AI. In the deep sea space station, health protection and other major projects, as well as
smart cities, smart agricultural equipment and other key national R&D projects are
focused on special deployment, strengthening the technical applications of AI. Other
types of science and technology projects to support the basic theory of AI and common
technology research results should be open and shared.
Innovate a new generation of major scientific and technological projects in AI to
organize the implementation of the model. Adhere to focus on doing things, focusing on
the principle of breaking through, and fully utilizing the role of market mechanisms to
mobilize departments, locale, businesses and social forces to collectively promote the

  

23  

  
  

  

  
  

implementation. Clarify management responsibilities and regular
Strengthen dynamic adjustments and improve management efficiency.

assessments.

IV. Allocation of Resources
  
Make full use of existing funds, bases and other stock resources. The overall
allocation of international and domestic innovation resources, good financial investments,
the role of policy incentives and market allocation of resources leading role, leveraging
enterprises, social investment, the formation of financial funds, capital, social capital to
support the new pattern.
(A) Establish financial guidance, market-led financial support mechanism.
Co-ordinate the government and market multi-channel capital investments. Increase
financial support, revitalize existing resources. Provide support for application
demonstrations in the forefront of AI research, key common technology research, transfer
of results, and base platform construction. Use existing government investment funds to
support AI projects that are qualified. Encourage leading enterprises, industry innovation
alliance led the establishment of market-oriented AI development fund. Use angel
investment, venture capital, venture capital funds and capital market financing and other
channels to guide social capital to support the development of AI. Actively use the
government and social capital cooperation and other models to direct social capital
towards the implementation of major scientific and technological projects in AI in
various applications.
(B) Optimize the layout of the construction of a foundation for innovation in
AI.
In accordance with the national science and technology innovation layout and
framework, promote the field of AI to build a number of international leading innovation
base. Guide the existing key national laboratories, key enterprise laboratories, national
engineering laboratories and other bases that focus on AI, towards the forefront of AI
research. According to regulations, enterprises are the main body, production and
research cooperation in the field of AI related technology and industrial innovation base,
play a leading role in demonstrating technological innovation. Develop AI in the field of
professional space. Promote the latest technological achievements and resources,
services, precision docking. Fully utilize all kinds of innovation base to gather talent,
capital and other innovative resources. The role of being at the forefront of AI theory and
key common technology, and carry out demonstrations of its applications.
(C) Co-ordinate international and domestic innovative resources.
Support domestic AI enterprises and international AI leading universities, research
institutes, and teamwork. Encourage domestic AI enterprises to "go out." Provide
services to capable AI enterprises to carry out overseas mergers and acquisitions, equity
investment, venture capital and the establishment of overseas R&D centers. Encourage
foreign AI enterprises and research institutions to set up R&D centers in China. Relying

  

24  

  
  

  

  
  

on the "One Belt, One Road" strategy to promote the construction of international AI
scientific and technological cooperation bases and joint research centers, and to speed up
the AI technology in "One Belt, One Road" along the country to promote the
application. Promote the establishment of international AI organizations to jointly
develop relevant international standards. Support the relevant industry associations,
alliances and service agencies to build AI services for global service platforms.
V. Assurance Measures
Based on China's need to promote the healthy and rapid development of AI, it is
necessary to deal with the possible challenges of AI by forming an institutional
arrangements to adapt to the development of AI. Build an open and inclusive
international environment and reinforce the notion of AI development as the foundation
for society.
(A) Develop laws and regulations and ethical norms that promote the
development of AI.
Strengthen the research on legal, ethical and social issues related to AI, and establish
laws, regulations and ethical frameworks to ensure the healthy development of AI. Carry
out research on legal issues such as civil and criminal responsibility confirmation,
privacy and property protection, information security utilization related to the application
of AI. Establish a traceability and accountability system. Clarify the legalities of AI and
related rights, obligations and responsibilities. Focus on automatic driving, service robots
and other applications based on the better subdivision areas. Speed up the study and
development of relevant safety management laws and regulations, lay the legal
framework for the rapid application of new technology. Carry out AI in behavioral
science, the study of ethics and other issues. Establish ethical and moral multi-level
judgment structure and the ethical framework in human-computer collaboration. Develop
a code of ethics for R&D designers of AI products. Strengthen assessments of potential
hazards and benefits of AI, and build solutions for emergencies in complex
situations. Actively participate in global governance of AI. Strengthen the study of major
common international problems such as robot alienation and safety supervision. Deepen
international cooperation in AI laws and regulations, international rules and so on, and
jointly cope with global challenges.
(B) Improve the key policies that support AI development.
Implement tax incentives for small and medium AI enterprises and start-up
enterprises. Through high-tech enterprises tax incentives and R&D additional deductions
and other policies to support the development of AI enterprises. Improve the
implementation of open data and protection-related policies. Expand public data to open
the use of reform pilot to support the public and enterprises to fully tap the commercial
value of public data, and promote the application of AI innovation. Study and perfect the
incorporation of AI into education, medical care, insurance and social assistance.
Effectively deal with social problems brought by AI.

  

25  

  
  

  

  
  

(C) Establish standards and the intellectual property system for AI technology.
Strengthen research on the framework of AI. Adhere to the principles of security,
availability, interoperability, traceability, and gradually establish and improve the basics
of AI, interoperability, industry applications, network security, privacy protection and
other technical standards. Speed up the promotion of unmanned, service robots and other
segments of industry associations and the Union to develop relevant
standards. Encourage AI enterprises to participate in or lead the development of
international standards. Using the technical standard "going out" to promote the
application of AI products overseas. Strengthen the protection of intellectual property in
the field of AI. Improve technological innovation in the field of AI, patent protection and
standardization of interactive support mechanism to promote the innovation of AI
intellectual property rights. Establish AI public patent pools. Promote the use of AI and
the spread of new technologies.
(D) Establish safety supervision and evaluation systems for AI.
Strengthen the research and evaluation of the influence of AI in national security.
Improve the safety protection system of human, technology, material and pipe, and
construct the early warning mechanism in AI safety monitoring. Strengthen the
development of AI technology prediction, research and follow-up research. Adhere to
problem-specific and accurate interpretations of technology and industry trends. Enhance
risk awareness; pay attention to risk assessment, prevention and control. Strengthen the
prospective prevention and restraint guidance, the recent focus on the impact of
employment, long-term focus on the impact of social ethics, to ensure that the
development of AI is safe. Establish and improve the open and transparent AI supervision
system. Implement design accountability and application of the supervision of the twotier regulatory structure. Achieve AI algorithm design, monitor product development,
application of results, and the rest of the process. Promote self-discipline in AI
enterprises and the industry. Earnestly strengthen management. Increase disciplinary
measures against the abuse of data, violations of personal privacy, and anything morally
unethical. Strengthen R&D in AI network security technology. Strengthen systems
network security protection in AI products. Develop dynamic AI research and
development evaluation mechanism. Around the AI design, product and system
complexity, risk, uncertainty, interpretability, potential economic impact and other issues,
develop systematic testing methods and indicators system. Construct cross-domain AI
test platforms to promote AI safety certification, assessment of AI products and systems
of key performance.
(E) Vigorously strengthen training for the labor force working in AI.
Accelerate the study of how AI affects the employment structure, the
employment methods and the skills demands of new occupations and jobs.
lifelong learning and employment training systems to meet the needs of
economy and intelligent society, and support institutions of higher learning,

  

change of
Establish
intelligent
vocational

26  

  
  

  

  
  

schools and socialization training Institutions to carry out AI skills training, substantially
increasing the professional skills of workers to meet the demands of the high-quality jobs
in China's AI research. Encourage enterprises and organizations to provide AI skills
training for employees. Strengthen re-employment training and guidance for workers to
ensure that simple and repetitive work and the smooth transition of workers due to AI.
(F) Carry out a wide range of AI science activities.
Support the development of a variety of AI science activities. Encourage the broad
masses of scientific and technological workers to join the AI of popular science and
promotion. Comprehensively improve the whole society's overall intelligence on and
application of AI. Implement universal intelligence education project. In primary and
secondary schools, offer AI-related courses, and gradually promote the programming
education, to encourage society to participate in educational programming software,
game development and promotion. Construct and improve AI science infrastructure.
Fully utilize all kinds of AI innovation base platform and other popular science role.
Encourage AI enterprises, research institutions to build open source platforms, open AI
research and development platforms, production facilities or exhibition hall for the
public. Support the development of AI competition, to encourage the formation of a
variety of AI science creations. Encourage scientists to participate in AI science.
VI. Organization and Implementation
A new generation of AI development planning is comprehensive and forwardlooking. We must strengthen the organization and leadership, improve the mechanism,
aim at the target, focus on the task, to nail the spirit of a firm grasp, a blueprint in the end.
(A) Organization and leadership.
In accordance with the unified arrangements of the CPC Central Committee and the
State Council, the leading group of national science and technology system reform and
innovation system construction should take the lead in coordinating and reviewing major
tasks, major policies, major issues and key work arrangements to promote the
construction, guidance, coordination and supervision of relevant laws and regulations on
AI. The relevant departments to do the deployment of planning tasks. Relying on the
national science and technology plan (special, fund, etc.) management inter-ministerial
joint meeting, the Ministry of Science and Technology, in conjunction with the relevant
departments, will be responsible for promoting a new generation of major scientific and
technological projects in AI to strengthen coordination with other planning
tasks. Establish AI planning and promote it to offices. The office is located in the
Ministry of Science and Technology, specifically responsible for promoting the
implementation of planning. Establish the AI strategy advisory committee, which will
study the scope and strategic major issues of AI. It will provide advisory assessment for
any major decision-making. Promote the construction of AI think tanks. Support all
kinds of think tanks to carry out major research on AI, and offer strong intellectual
support for AI development.

  

27  

  
  

  

  
  

(B) Protect the implementation.
Clarify division labor in planning tasks. Clarify responsibility units and schedule.
Develop annual and phased implementation plan. Establish annual assessments, mid-term
assessments and other implementations of the monitoring and evaluation
mechanism. Adapt to the rapid developments of AI according to the progress of the tasks.
The completion of the stage objectives, new trends in technology development.
Strengthen the planning and project dynamic adjustment.
(C) Pilot demonstrations.
On the major tasks of AI and key policy measures, develop specific programs to
carry out pilot demonstrations. Strengthen coordination efforts between various
departments for local pilot demonstrations, summarize timely the promotion of replicable
experience and practices. Through pilot first, demonstration lead, promote the healthy
and orderly development of AI.
(D) Public opinion guidance.
Make full use of the variety of traditional media and new media, timely publicity of
new progress in AI, new results, to inform the public of healthy developments in AI.
Mobilize the whole society to participate in supporting the development of AI
initiatives. Timely public opinion guidance, better response to the development of AI
may bring social, ethical and legal challenges.
  

  

28  


